Qn 1)   What are some new things happening in the web?
  
   Progressive Web Apps (PWA)
In 2019, 65% of online shopping orders through the website were made with mobile devices. PWA’s rising website trend makes it possible for users to view their favorite websites on a mobile web browser or desktop and without downloading special apps or computer programs. PWAs in 2021 will be written with HTML and CSS, JavaScript, React, or Angular. Besides great user experience and no need for programs, PWA could send push notifications and provide users with offline access to cached content.
 
   Artificial Intelligence and Bots
Huge B2C companies already use the technology to serve their customers — official page chatbots inside Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, and Skype are good examples. A bot could be also integrated into PWA, regular website, professional or household equipment, and any Internet-connected app developed by a commercial company. 
 
    Single Page Application (SPA)
Single page application (or SPA) is one of the new website trends that helps us avoid seamless communication with the server and show better page performance and provide a high data protection level. 

   Voice Search Optimization
In 2021, more than half of all smart and IoT devices will hear users and execute commands given by voice. And even more — they will be able to recognize the voices of different people and provide personalized AI-based experiences for everyone. 

    Mobile-First Development
 there will be significantly more mobile devices than regular personal computers and now, we’ve got as much as 54% of the Internet traffic consumed with mobiles and tablets. So no surprises that web design trends tend to be more about small mobile screens than horizontally-oriented desktops.

 Qn 2)   Explain a project that you have built?

    One of the group project we build is a Overstock clone website. This website is for odering home decors, furnitures. In this website we use lots of technologies like HTML,CSS,javascript,Advanced javascript ,localstorage. MongoDB, React.Js, Express.

    Talking about my team we are 5 members in my team and my role was to create pages like Product details page and Cart page.

    So on that time there was a one page which is most difficult for me and my team because when the user clicks on that page the screen should be minimized or blur .

    So i decide to fix that issue,So i simply use google and youtube and after putting all of my effort i made this page on that time we were very happy because  i fixed that issue within in given time so they give 6 days to complete the project but we finish within 5 days only .

    Talking about communication skill so all the members were from different state so we decide to communicate this project in english language only that decision we also improve our communication skill.

    so at the last we all done with the perfect clonning of Overstock project with best presentation  and with in given time period.

And I have also built some other web apps on my own such as React calculator, Expense tracking app, Ecommerce website, Youtube clone.

Qn 3)  Whats something exciting that you have built?

      In project time there was a one page which is most difficult for me and my team, because when the user clicks on that page the screen should be minimized or blur,So i decide to fix that issue.

      I simply use google and youtube and after putting all of my effort i made this page on that time we are very happy because , i fixed that issue so thats page is very exciting for me.

 Qn 4)  What are you most excited about?

     I am most excited about meeting big goals. I am just that type of a person–I like to have goals to follow, ideally big ambitious goals.
    
     Who would not want to put a dent to the Universe after all, leaving some mark on this planet? Working for Google–if I get a chance to work here–I will work on products and applications billions of people use every day. It is beyond exciting to me, just to imagine the impact I could have in this job. Before it can happen, however, I have to succeed in this interview with you, and I am sure it won’t be easy

Qn 5)  Why do coding standards matter? What are some patterns you follow?

    Coding standards help in the development of software programs that are less complex and thereby reduce the errors. 
    
    If programming standards in software engineering are followed, the code is consistent and can be easily maintained. This is because anyone can understand it and can modify it at any point in time.

Qn 6)  How do you go about managing responsive websites?

    a. Focus On The Content
    What does content have to do with website design? A whole lot.

    b. Get To Know The Media Query
    The backbone of responsive design is the ability to shift and format content depending on the size of the screen. In technical terms, this is known as “the media query.”

     c. Keep A “Mobile First” Mentality
    When designing a responsive website, start with mobile styles as your foundation and add additional columns and styles with media queries. This way, if someone lands on your site using a device or browser that does not support media queries, they will be able to see the mobile version of your site.

    d. Create A Flexible Foundation
    Are you familiar with set-width and fluid grids? The biggest difference between the two is the way they calculate the widths of elements on websites.

     A set-width grid calculates the sizes of elements by pixels.
     A fluid grid calculates the sizes of elements by percentages.

     e. Don’t Neglect The Navigation
    Navigation is one of the most important assets of a website. Unfortunately, it’s also one that most “responsive websites” get wrong. Don’t fall into this trap!

    f. Optimize Your Assets
    g. Make Your Website “Touch-Friendly”
    With people browsing more and more frequently on mobile devices, they are sacrificing the accuracy of a mouse or stylus for the convenience of using their fingers.

    h.Pick The Right Content Management System (CMS)
    i. Invest In Testing Tools
     Just because your responsive website looks great on your computer and smartphone doesn’t mean others will have the same experience.

Qn.7)  What do you care about the most when you write software?

   a. Clarity of code. 
   b.Clarity of design. 
   c.Clarity of purpose. 
   d.You must understand — really understand — what you're doing at every level.
